loser.io is a service that provides remote access to player pianos through a REST APi interface. loser.io is aimed at businesses interested in optimizing their operational costs by reducing resources dedicated towards directly interfacing with piano players, tuners, movers, and technicians. To use loser.io, one simply directs a software engineer to integrate web requests to the service into the client's existing business logic. Each request effectively uploads a new "opus" to the processing queue, which is then recorded by a set of internally managed player pianos in as little as 24 hours. The client's system is then notified of the location of the recording through an automated mechanism.

loser.io is an attempt to make a case for defining technologies by the labors of maintenance required to use, reproduce, and recreate them, a movement towards theory of technology based on a lens that centers on the labors of maintenance required to sustain it. The project focuses on the design history of piano and current state of the piano tuning industry, because the piano is an interesting example of a computational object where the artificial division between "user" and "maintainer" is more blatantly physical in the more traditional instances of current-day computers. After interviewing piano tuners/restorers and doing a semester-long class on piano tuning and service at A.C. Pianocraft, the goal was to present my interpretations of this research in the form of an art project involving "engineering/'tech-stack' blog" for a fictional company called "loser.io", presented as an entity that claims to automate away the piano playing labor of a business by creating an API for a "server farm" of player pianos.

On January 21st of 2020, I enrolled in the New York School of Piano Tuning Service and Repair under the instruction of Lou Tasciotti. I was introduced to many of the initial complications a beginner piano tuner student becomes aware of upon studying the seemingly simple task of tuning all the strings of a piano.

One of the most immediate complications one will see that there actually three strings for most of the keys. for some lower strings, there are two. for the lowest bass notes, there is just one. another complication is steel, the typical material for the tuning pegs, is a very pliable material. my untrained hand saw that after making strings sharp, they would slowly fall back down, and vice versa. microscopically, the steel of the pin was unevenly twisted,  "like a wet noodle" as Lou explained. an experienced tuner develops a feel for a technique called  "taking the knock out". another complication is that as one works through every key of the piano individually, they will observe that keys tuned much earlier will appear to have fallen out of tune again. inside pianos are rigid cast iron frames bearing the collective tension of all the strings at once, where  adjustment to one string effects all others.

Then, one complication is perhaps basis of the entire craft of piano tuning.
measure a professionally tuned piano using an electronic device. the upper ends will read as sharp. the lower notes will read as flat. This is for two reasons: one, the physicality of piano strings can never truly replicate the analytical ideals referenced by acoustic physics. and Two: the precision of human hearing is not uniform over the frequency range of the piano. Piano tuners refer to both of these complications when discussing what they call "inharmonicity".

The character of two strings of different materials stretched to the same pitch is a result of the material preventing the string from vibrating in sub-sections in lengths strictly corresponding whole-number ratios. The human ear is more sensitive to some of these off-from-perfect divisions, so the perceived pitch of a piano string differs from what is typically recorded by an accurate electronic pitch measurement device. the aural piano tuner always works by comparing the string they are tuning to all the strings they have previously tuned on the instrument, focusing attention more on the resultant human perception of the unabstracted material than the fundamental pitch of each string. Piano tuners that use electronic measurements devices do so taking into consideration the calculative methods and algorithmic heuristics mechanized in the device, all created towards the goal of approximating the trained observations of a history of piano tuning, and deem the devices adequate enough. Final adjustments are always made in dialogue with, and sometimes in disagreement with, electronic tuning measurement devices.

i began by thinking about the analog to digital converter, a device and urge that collects and collates many momentary glimpses in order to positively recreate images of continuity, these images being optimized for transportation and transformation within digital virtual systems. A digital system moves as assortments of incomplete sightings. The analog area is made audible through guides of digitality. i started to think about aliasing, where ghost patterns emerge as the inescapable resonant co-creation between noise of the external and the tempo of insufficiencies in resolution. I started to think about the energy, intensity, waste, and decay of the tap. The Pop. The pulse. The Glance. The Peek. The Flash. The note. The datum. The reading. The bang. and then finally the strike which is where i started to become suspicious about the piano hammer, whose strike allows a relationship of holding by leaving. sustaining by disappearing. mechanisms of multiplicity. one can grasp multiple decaying events when one is not grasping any them at any singular moment, as long as they remain nearby during the aftermath, with fingertips on the dampers. All abstraction can be thought of as a type of compression. To compress is to apply force towards a minimization of form. The compressed form appears as less-than, while promising nothing is lost. How is loss averted? It is not. Compression works by defining the so called"nothing". In compression, "nothing" is lost. So of course abstraction is a distortion. Distortion is a process which transforms something that is "true" to something is not that "true". The analog is sometimes said to always remain the "truth" between boolean "truths". The digital is said to be a reduction, a naming, thus a grasp, of truth.
end with ringing of pitch fork

there are many reasons to look into the piano to study technology. like the personal computer, the piano exists as a claim to bring an array of standardized, orthogonal powers to the finger tips. combinational functionality, consumption to a degree of social sophistication that it is a form of cultural production. like a personal computer, it also exists a continuous threat of of degradation, demanding nonstop connectivity with structures of specialized labors of adjustment and calibration in order to maintain its idiosyncratic persona of functionality. just like the machine learning model is sometimes said to "do" or "say" something, it can also be described as a software-based method for mimicking patterns of quantitative products, products of of large-scale mobilizations of sociotechnical labors. so am i claiming machines simply always the reflections of raw human will, in the form of direct acts of design or establishment of coercive socioeconomic limitations? latour quotes alan turing extension of lady lovelace's theorization of machinic limitations by contrasting the image of the fatal neutron injected the critically cataclysmic atomic pile with the humble occurance of the piano hammer striking the the string that is then immediately destined towards a decay towards silence. one could also see the taught metal wire of an iron-cast harp, perpetually writhing towards slackness but repeatedly thwarted by the collective pull of its neighbors on the iron frame, suddenly invigourated by the short embrace of the pliable yet firm pillow of the felt on the piano hammer head at the end of a thin rod of wood, bent by the technicians hands during the window of uncertainty created by the head the alcohol lamp, aimed to fly from the kick of the foot of jack, a small L shaped piece of wood lunges at the hammer only to be restrained by the letoff button, whose length is set as one of the many attempts to materialize the desires eminenting from the technician's question "well what do you want it to sound like?", a question that begins the temporary messy dialogue between a container of technologies everlastingly binded with celebrations of violence and appropriations towards declarations of survival, and its two maintainers for that hour, the piano tuner and the piano player. the cataclysmic pile is frequently spread too far to fit on a single keyboard.

loser.io is a pair of github repos and a website linking to an account on medium.com with uncurated notes towards drafts towards a hope of eventually making some oblique blog posts. The new york school of piano tuning service and repair announced indefinite cancellation of the semester on march 31st. an optimistic reading of this project is that it could said to resemble a scaffolding for the original project. invoking the concept of the scaffold, in the github-age of software development, is fitting despite it being frustrating. a popular type of utility for programmers is said to generate "code scaffolding", structures of empty folders and lightly decorated text files of code that are then said be left in a state of neutrality, ready at hand for "the actual work" to be done. these computer folder generators, in a strange way, embody fantasies of the technooptimist, that one can make, and make a neutral tool that automates, and that automatation quickly and effortlessly does something repetitious efficiently, where the result is something utterly utterly open to ethical direction, to moral dominion, standing neutral reserve, a flattened accessible index of individualized tools and powers, ready to hand for the combinatorial performance of invention/innovation/idealization of hyper-rational utopias. but of course the names and shapes of these folders come from conventions, sometimes specific to the communities around tools being used, to the patterns in the history of programming, or firm singlehanded decisions from the utility's author. As Geoffery Bowker and Susan Leigh Starr write "We have a moral and ethical agenda in our querying of theses systems . Each standard and each category valorizes some point of view and silences another. This is not inherently a bad thing - indeed it is inescapable. But it -is an ethical choice, and as such it is dangerous- not bad, but dangerous.".

loser.io began with the a pessimistic assumption that a "good technology" is not possible, and "bad technology" is as inevitable as the cosmological material realities of the societies are said host it, as agents of exacerbation, not essentially transformation. but exacerbation of society is an inevitability of society. it's not that technology is unavoidable, it is that it begins from somewhere that is unavoidable. is there a path to coming to terms with this, bringing along this curse, without allowing it to destroy the egalitarian societies we need and desire? loser.io was never a project ambitious enough to attempt to answer this question, instead, it was an attempt to attain single tap on it.
